Structured
Unstructured
Transactional
Relational

Cloud Storage
Cloud SQL
Cloud Spanner
Firestore
Cloud BigTable

### Cloud Storage
Highly available object storage. Object storage is a computer data storage architecture that manages data as "objects" and not as a file and folder hierarchy (file storage), or as chunks of a disk (block storage)
Cloud storage files are organized into buckets. A bucket needs a globally unique name and a specific geographic location for where it should be stored.
The storage objects offered by Cloud Storage are immutable, which means that you do not edit them, but instead a new version is created with every change made.

**Access Control**
For most purposes, Cloud IAM is sufficient - inherited from project to bucket to object
For finer control, ACLs - Scope + Permission
**Lifecycle Policies**
examples:
	Delete objects older than x days
	Delete objects created before date
	Keep only the 3 most recent versions

Storage Classes:
Standard Data: Frequently accessed or Hot data
Near-line Storage: Once per month (Data Backups, long-tail multimedia content, or data archiving)
Cold-line Storage - Once every 90 days
Archive Storage - Once per year (data archiving, online backup, and DR). Lower cost for storage; however, higher cost for access and operations. 365-day minimum storage duration.

All:
	Unlimited Storage (no min object size)
	Wordwide accessibility and locations
	Low latency and high durability
	A uniform experience
	Geo-redundancy

More:
- Pay only for what you use
- No prior provisioning of capacity
- Encrypts data on the server side
- Use HTTPS/TLS (Transport Layer Security)

Transfers:
- Online Transfer: gcloud storage - cloud storage command from cloud sdk, drag and drop
- Storage Transfer Service - TB or PB of data, import large amounts of data quickly and cost effectively from another cloud service, on-prem, endpoints, etc.
- Transfer Appliance - PB data/appliance

Some other usage examples:
	Import and export tables to and from both BigQuery and Cloud SQL
	Store App engine logs, Firestore backups, and objects used by App Engine applications, like images.
	Store instance startup scripts, Compute Engine Images, and objects used by Compute Engine applications.

### Cloud SQL
Fully managed relational databases, including MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQL Server
- Doesn't require any software installation or maintenance
- Can scale up to 64 processor cores, 400+ GB of RAM, and 30TB of storage
- Supports automatic replication scenarios
- Supports managed backups - The cost of an instance covers 7 backups
- Encrypts customer data when on Google's internal networks and when stored in database tables, temporary files, and backups
- Includes a network firewall

### Cloud Spanner
Fully managed relational databases that scales horizontally
- SQL relational database management system with joins and secondary indexes
- Built-in high availability
- Strong global consistency
- High number of input/output operations per second.

### Firestore

Flexible, horizontally scalable, NoSQL cloud database for mobile, web, and server development.
Data is stored in documents and organized into collections.
- Insert individual documents
- Retrieve all the documents in a collection
- Can include multiple, chained filters
- Can combine filtering and sorting options
- Indexed by default
Uses data synchronization, caches data app is actively using.
- Automatic multi-region data replication
- Strong consistency guarantees
- Atomic batch operations
- Real transaction support
When using Firestore, you're charged for:
- Reading, writing, and deleting documents
- Queries, which are counted as one document read
- The amount of database storage used
- The amount of network bandwidth used*

### Cloud Bigtable

Google's NoSQL big data database service
	Handle massive workloads
	Consistent low latency
	High throughput
Great choice for:
	Operational applications
	Analytical applications
Customers often choose Bigtable if:
	They work with more than 1TB of semi-structured or structured data
	Data is fast with high throughput, or it's rapidly changing
	They work with NoSQL data
	Data is a time-series or has natural semantic ordering
	They work with big data, running asynchronous batch or synchronous real-time processing on the data
	They run machine learning algorithms on the data
Cloud Bigtable can interact with other Cloud services and third-party clients:
	Using APIs (Managed VMs, HBase Rest Server, Java Server)
	Stream Data (Dataflow, Spark streaming, Storm)
	Batch Processes (Hadoop MapReduce, Dataflow, Spark)

## Lab Objectives

In this lab, you learn how to perform the following tasks:
- Create a Cloud Storage bucket and place an image into it.
- Create a Cloud SQL instance and configure it.
- Connect to the Cloud SQL instance from a web server.
- Use the image in the Cloud Storage bucket on a web page.

## Task 2. Deploy a web server VM instance
Startup Script in Automation section in Management in Advanced
`apt-get update
apt-get install apache2 php php-mysql -y
service apache2 restart`

## Task 3. Create a Cloud Storage bucket using the gcloud storage command line
`export LOCATION=US
gcloud storage buckets create -l $LOCATION gs://$DEVSHELL_PROJECT_ID
gcloud storage cp gs://cloud-training/gcpfci/my-excellent-blog.png my-excellent-blog.png
gcloud storage cp my-excellent-blog.png gs://$DEVSHELL_PROJECT_ID/my-excellent-blog.png
gsutil acl ch -u allUsers:R gs://$DEVSHELL_PROJECT_ID/my-excellent-blog.png`

## Task 4. Create the Cloud SQL instance
## Task 5. Configure an application in a Compute Engine instance to use Cloud SQL
